0.2.0 WIP (#26)
dojoengine/book: src/cairo/authorization.md

## Authorization

> Authorization is crucial to a world, just like how authorization is crucial to any smart contract.

As discussed in the [World](./world.md) chapter, Autonomous Worlds (AWs) function as sovereign chains nested within a public blockchain. These Worlds are also open to the public. This structure allows anyone to enhance a World by deploying components or systems. However, this openness also introduces security considerations. Similar to Ethereum, interacting with a component's state within a System requires the appropriate authorization from the component owner.

### Auth Architecture

Every time a `set!` is called in a `System`, the world checks if the `System` has authorization to update the component state. Only when the `System` possesses the necessary authorization, the `set!` is executed. The following diagram illustrates the authorization architecture.

![Authorization Architecture](../images/dojo-auth.png)

### Providing Authorization

> > It is essential to remember that the deployer of the Component is its owner, and only they can authorize Systems to update the Component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The deployer of the Component is its initial owner. A Component owner is able to grant the `owner` and `writer` roles. Only owners can grant a System the `writer` role which allows it to update the Component.
```
